Hello everybody and welcome back.
So by the end of this lecture we'll be able to finish off our well position component because we're
going to go and get the location and print that out and we can use that location later on as well.
So we're going to finish the world position component and then we're going to be using the DOS operate
in the arrow to access members depending on whether it's a pointer or not.
And we'll also be introducing F vector.
This is simply going to return as three values are X Y and Z.
Let's go over to V as code and then we'll have a look at effector Okay everybody Welcome back.
Now I'm going to uncommon this string at the top here that our object name that we created before.
And we've got the ghetto now get name and when we hover over the get named C. that it returns an F string.
This is important we've talked about it in the past but whatever this is going off and getting has to
be the same type on the left hand side as well other.
Otherwise it just won't match.
So where are we going get this struct this F vector that will be returning three values.
We need to make sure they come back not just as a F vector but they need to come back as a string.
So the first thing we're going to do here is just create ourselves a new F string and we're going to
call it object's position.
And what are we going to set it to.
Well it's going to be gets owner again and that's where we run a bit dry.
Now we can finish off those brackets and if you have intel you sense that is working we can once again
use the arrow operator remember if we hover over this we see it's an actor star so it's a pointer to
the actor.
Now we can go and have it go ahead and have a look at the other functions of the other member functions
that we can go ahead and call.
Now the issue is just scrolling through here is there not really documented.
I mean we can hover over some of these and they give a few extra bits of information occasionally but
that's not really a great way of searching for things.
So let's go over to the unreal documentation and take a better look at these things.
And here we go.
So we have here an effector we we're going to start with this so we get an idea of what's coming back.
It's a vector in 3D space composed of coordinates basically with floating point precision.
So it's going to be a struggle to re scroll down we'll see that and that contains the X Y and Z and
they're all floats.
So they're all going to be decimal places which makes sense when you move things around in the editor
window.
They certainly don't move by whole numbers unless you've got snapping turned on and we scroll down here.
This is this is similar to what we've looked at before and then we can see all of these functions that
we can call on me F vector so I'm going to go and search this documentation and look for string.
Is there something on here that we can.
Yes there is brilliant.
So there is a function we can call on this F vector that will return a textual representation of the
vector.
So this is great.
This gives us a bit more context as to what these functions actually do and we can see up the top here
there's two compact string as well that may actually be useful.
And one of the things that we'll see as we go through this particular lecture is that you can do things
in multiple ways.
So the answer that I come up with at the end will work.
But you could have potentially got to it's a different way as well because part of the challenge coming
up will be to search through this documentation and try and find the right thing to use really increasing
your skill level being able to read these documents and understand what you might use.
And also that there might not be one correct answer.
So now that we've done that what we need to do is find the objects transform.
So in order to do that we're going to go right up to the top of the UAE for documentation.
So if you go to the Unreal Engine website Unreal Engine dot com we go to learn and documentation.
This is the slow way of getting here.
You could also use a Google search to find these things as well.
And then we can go in and go scroll down here it used to be tabs along the top.
They've moved it to a bar down the side here and we have Unreal Engine c++ api reference.
And what we want to look for in here is the a acting class.
Because that's what we're drilling deeper into.
And let's go ahead and click on the top on here at.
Unreal documentation.
Now this will give us the include which you've already got which is why we can use the auto complete
that is important.
I bring that up again include what you use if you find something is not also filling it might be that
you've not included it or if you get compile errors as well every scroll down here we get a list of
once again functions that we can end up calling.
Now we're going to be getting a object's location or maybe transform.
There are lots of different ways that we could search for it.
So let's search for position because there are several words that you can obviously interchange position
location so it doesn't look like positions is going to bring up what we want.
I know for a fact location is going to work and if we have a look through all of the various locations
now there will be lots to search for here.
But when it's got to get at the beginning if you're trying to get something back it's going to be a
good start.
So we can get the actor location and look it returns an F vector which we can then put to string in
order to return a String and set our variable that gets position the object position sorry and look
all of this is documented as well so you can just verify returns the location of the root component
of this actor.
That's important because if you've got a component that's offset perhaps you want to return the position
of that component.
So we've looked at location another name for this is the transform.
So if we have a look under transform and we go this returns that gets the act it's a world transformed
so its location in the world which is exactly what we want as well.
And we've got f transform let's have a look and see what we've got under here.
Now another thing if you know what you're trying to return in this case an effector factor.
Here we go.
At translation that's not going to be what we want.
So sometimes it takes a bit of reading as you go through these documents I'm sure there's going to be
a get position or get location as we scroll down there's a get location right here.
And once we go in to get location is returning an F vector which we know we can do dot to string in
order to convert it to a string.
And of course you can continue searching through here to get a good I remember it's important that you
don't try and memorize all of this that you have the skills to go and find what you need when you need
it and just think logically and try and also remember that there are multiple ways of doing something
and that's sometimes something maybe a book called position in one instance transform in another location
in another order these words are interchangeable so you may end up with something that's a slightly
different word to how you might have described it.
Okay.
So now that we've done that I'd like you to do this little challenge.
Take your time read through the documents.
And when I go through my answer it may be different from yours but if you have successfully printed
out the x y and z coordinates of the object then we're spot on your code is in fact functioning exactly
how we intend it to see your challenge is to finish off our f string opposite position equals get owner
and then the arrow operator what else do we need on the end of that.
And remember my answer may be different to yours as long as at the end your print into the log that
the object names that will vary depending on what objects our component is placed upon is at position
x y and z.
So those should have values that match the transform in the ed. window possibly now and give that a
go Okay everybody Welcome back.
Let's dive on over and create some code that is going to go and get the objects world position
Okay so we're at this point here and let's go ahead and I will do get location get active location.
There we go.
And if we hover over that we will see that it is returning an effector and there's no star there.
So we're going to go and do dot.
And obviously this knows that I wants to use to stream because I've used it before.
And so we can see to string is the next function that I'm going to call on it.
And that's the end because this will now be returning an F string which matches everything over on the
left hand side which means I can now repurpose this Yui log down here to save the object.
Well we're not gonna say objects anymore we're going to do the format specify a string so then we can
say that the object name so star here object name
and we don't need the name afterwards we can say position in world is then another percentage.
S and then what we should get back here will be once again star object position.
There we go.
Let's test that and see if it works.
So save our work go over into unreal click on compile excellent I'm going to open up my output log that's
been shut down.
Now when I press play we should have the cube position in the world is so we've got some values that
brilliant.
Well let's go check them.
If we go ahead and exit the play and select the cube we can see this position in the world is minus
220 200 130 220 200 130.
Brilliant.
That's exactly what I was hoping to see.
How did you guys get on.
Now you might approach this slightly differently in which case that's absolutely fine as well.
So what else could you have written.
Well instead of get actor location here you could quite easily gone down the transformer.
Now I can use fuzzy search here to get the access transform include my brackets here.
Have a look.
It's going to return an F transform so I can use the dots because there's no string there.
Now just sending the transform to string.
Let's see what we get if we do that.
This may not work.
This is this is part of the learning journey part of understanding what does work and what doesn't.
And if that gives you the values back that you would expect so you can do a bit of exploring with intelligence.
I know the X code can be a bit rough around the edges when it comes to that and certainly doesn't include
quite the length of fuzziness that you might otherwise want.
So this is returning what we want which is really good.
And it is also returning the rotation and scale so we didn't want all of the extra information but this
would have been a pass as well because you've got back to the object information that you wanted to
get.
However from the get to access transform we could also pull from that its location get location.
Here we go.
So get location and that we can probably do dot to string.
You can see how this is quite a long winded way of writing what we had in the first place but now we're
just getting the location from the actors transform and then putting that to a string.
So let's see what happens here
oh I've forgotten something that yes I forgot my parentheses at the end.
Let's save that and there we go we get the same results again as the first way round.
Now there was no right or wrong with that.
That's the important thing to remember that is very easy to go down an avenue of there's only one way
of doing things and that's true in some circumstances.
But in this particular way No you can go about two distinctly different ways that in order to get the
right code working now I don't like this.
I am going to go ahead and go back to get location gets actor location and then do the DOT to string
on there.
Remember your parentheses and I won't just know that that is working I'm going to compile it anyway
and make sure that I haven't accidentally deleted anything else and there we go we've got the results
that I wanted to see.
Perfect.
How do you guys get on which route did you end up taking.
Both are correct and both give us the result that we want lets us know over in the discussions which
routes you took and I'll see you all in the next lecture.